I know what you're thinking.
Are we going to actually write any
JavaScript code any time soon?
Yes.
Right now and for the rest of the course.
This lecture is the Global Environment and
the Global Object.
Whenever code is run in JavaScript,
it's run inside an execution context.
We've seen that word already.
Meaning a wrapper that the JavaScript
engine, the program that other people
wrote that's parsing and looking at and
verifying and executing your code.
That wraps that up,
that code that you've written,
it wraps the currently executing
code in an execution context.
So when we look at our very
first JavaScript program,
we're going to be looking at an execution
context being created and run.
And the base execution context,
we'll look at a few.
Because there's more than one that runs
during a JavaScript program normally.
The base execution context is
your global execution context and
it has a couple of special things
that come along for the ride.
The base execution context,
the global execution context, and
when we say global, we're talking
about the thing that's accessible
everywhere to everything in you're code,
it's global.
All right, so the global execution
context creates two things for
you, you don't have to in your code.
It creates a Global Object.
Remember an object is just
a collection of name value pairs.
It creates this Global Object and
it creates a special variable for
you, called 'this'.
The JavaScript engine is creating
these two things for you whenever
your code is run, because your code is
wrapped inside an execution context.
And these two things are created for
you by the JavaScript engine.
All right, let's take a look.
All right, it's that time.
We're going to look at our
very first JavaScript program.
Now, we're going to run our
JavaScript in the browser.
This is very convenient, again,
because we have our dev tools, and
we can see what's going on under
the hood a little bit easier.
But we're going to do that simply
by having a simple HTML page
referencing a single
script I'm calling app.js,
which will always contain
the code that we're working with.
I have this sitting in a folder and
I'm opening that folder in brackets.
And then I'm going to hit this
button in the upper right
in order to launch Google Chrome and
run this webpage,
which will then cause the browser
to run this JavaScript.
That's how we'll do all of our examples.
All right, so are you ready?
Here's our very first JavaScript program.
Let's open app.js.
There it is.
What do you think?
I know what you're thinking,
hey, that's empty.
There's nothing in that file.
All right, well,
you're right I wrote no code.
Let's run it.
I'm going to hit my Live Preview button,
Google Chrome launches.
And then I'm going to
open up the dev console.
Notice there are no errors.
The JavaScript file was loaded,
the syntax parser started,
and realize there is nothing to parse.
So I had no code to execute.
But because it started
executing the JavaScript,
because it ran the file,
an execution context was created.
And remember those two things that
were supposed to be created for
us, a global object and
a special variable called this.
Well inside here,
inside the DevTools console window,
I can take a peek inside
the execution context.
The values of variables and
what's going on in memory.
So if I just go this,
look there's something there.
Now I didn't build this I didn't put
that in the code, the code is empty.
But the execution context was
created by the JavaScript engine and
it decided what the value of this should
be and what this is, is the window.
The current window that I'm in,
my browser window because I'm
running JavaScript in the browser.
Interestingly, I have available
an object called window.
The same object, so this window
object the current tab that I'm on
is the global object inside browsers.
Now if you're using no js your
running java script on the server
it won't be the window object
there's a different global object.
But there is always a global object
when you're running JavaScript.
In the case of browsers it's the window.
If I had a separate tab open that would be
a separate global object because each tab
of each window is its own execution
context, its own global execution context.
But notice I have these two values and
I wrote no code.
That's the JavaScript
engine doing this for me.
So, we just learned something.
An execution context was
created at the global level.
There's a global object,
meaning that object is available to all
the code running inside that window,
inside that area, inside that JavaScript
file, inside that lexical environment.
And there's a special variable that the
JavaScript engine created that sits inside
the execution context called 'this'.
And what we saw was that the global object
inside internet browsers like Google
Chrome or Firefox or whatever the case,
is the window object and that it did
create a variable called, 'this'.
And at the global level
those two things are equal.
This, refers to the window object and
you can also just say, window and
get the global object.
Now, just to be really clear,
when we say global,
in JavaScript that means
not inside a function.
Don't think too much deeper than that.
That means code or variables that
aren't inside a function is global.
We already saw that we have window and
this,
a global object and this available
to us without a single line of code.
Now what happens when we
actually put some code in?
All right let's write
our first bit of code.
I'll create a variable and
call it a, and just give it a value.
Hello World!
I'm gonna create a function called b,
and just leave it empty.
Got that?
The variable,the function.
Now I'll run this, and
I'll actually have some code now.
The execution context is created.
This code is not inside a function,
although I'm creating a function here.
All this code is not inside a function,
so it's global.
This and
window are already available to me.
And you'll see something interesting.
If I look at window, and open it up.
Remember JavaScript objects are name
value pairs, so there's lots of names and
lots of values.
A function can be a value but
if I scroll down a ways there, see that?
A and B, my variable and my function.
In JavaScript, when you create
variables and functions, and
you're not inside a function,
those variables and
functions get attached
to the global object.
So, if I just go like this,
a, it's Hello World!
But I could also go window.a,
the global object.a.
It's the same thing.
See that?
So, your variables and
your functions when lexically is not
sitting inside a function, they're just
sitting right there on the global object.
All right, so, when code is executed,
your JavaScript code is executed,
an execution context is created.
At the base level, when you're not inside
a function, you have a global object
that the JavaScript engine creates for
you as part of that execution context.
If you're running code inside a browser,
that Global Object is the window object.
You'd get a special
variable called "this:.
And in the case of the browser
this at that global
level is just the same as the window
object, it's equal to the window object.
There's also something that is
something we haven't talked about yet
and we will shortly,
a link to the outer environment.
Now when you're running
code inside a function,
that means the code that's
outside the function.
But, when you're running at the global
level, meaning when you're not inside
a function, well there is nothing outside,
you're as outside as you can get.
There is no outer environment so
that's just null,
it's nothing at the global level.
But, we will see this come up later
very importantly when running and
executing functions.
Finally, the execution
context is running Your code.
If you're creating variables and
functions, then that's going
to sit on the global object if
you are writing code that is global,
again, that is not inside a function.
But the important thing here is that there
is this wrapper, this execution context
which has these other things
that you didn't write.
And the JavaScript engine running
your code is doing this for you.
All right.
So let's move on.